app: Show heap and stack stats (#371)
nrfconnect/ncs-serial-modem: doc/app/at_generic.rst

   #. Connecting again using LTE.
   #. Restarting the service.
      For example, opening the socket and re-establishing the TCP connection.

.. _SM_AT_DBGSTATSMEM:

Memory statistics #XDBGSTATSMEM
===============================

.. note::

   This AT command is `Experimental <Software maturity levels_>`_.

Print heap and thread stack memory statistics to the log at the ``INF`` level.

> Since this is using the logging as an output, you must enable logging first by issuing ``AT#XLOG=1`` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since this is using the logging as an output, you must enable logging first by issuing the ``AT#XLOG=1`` command.
```

The following statistics are printed:

* System heap (``malloc`` heap): free bytes, allocated bytes, and peak allocated bytes.
* Kernel heap (``k_malloc`` heap): free bytes, allocated bytes, and peak allocated bytes.
* Kernel heap block information.
  * This is only available when the ``CONFIG_SYS_HEAP_INFO`` Kconfig option is enabled.
* Thread stack usage statistics.
  * This is only available when the :ref:`CONFIG_SM_DEBUG_STATS_THREAD_STACK <CONFIG_SM_DEBUG_STATS_THREAD_STACK>` Kconfig option is enabled.

>   * Setting the ``CONFIG_LOG_BUFFER_SIZE`` Kconfig option to 2048 or more is required to avoid dropping some of the log entries showing stack usage statistics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* System heap (``malloc`` heap) - Free bytes, allocated bytes, and peak allocated bytes.
* Kernel heap (``k_malloc`` heap) - Free bytes, allocated bytes, and peak allocated bytes.
* Kernel heap block information - This is only available when the ``CONFIG_SYS_HEAP_INFO`` Kconfig option is enabled.
* Thread stack usage statistics:

  * This is only available when the :ref:`CONFIG_SM_DEBUG_STATS_THREAD_STACK <CONFIG_SM_DEBUG_STATS_THREAD_STACK>` Kconfig option is enabled.
  * Setting the ``CONFIG_LOG_BUFFER_SIZE`` Kconfig option to 2048 or more is required to avoid dropping some of the log entries showing stack usage statistics.
```
To render correctly - https://ncsbmdoc.z6.web.core.windows.net/addons/addon-serial_modem/PR-371/app/at_generic.html#memory-statistics-xdbgstatsmem

This command is available when the firmware is built with the :ref:`CONFIG_SM_DEBUG_STATS_HEAP <CONFIG_SM_DEBUG_STATS_HEAP>` Kconfig option enabled.
In addition, the ``CONFIG_LOG`` Kconfig option and the ``CONFIG_SM_LOG_LEVEL_DBG`` or ``CONFIG_SM_LOG_LEVEL_INF`` Kconfig option must be enabled.

Set command
-----------

::

   AT#XDBGSTATSMEM

The command prints memory statistics to the log and returns ``OK``.
No memory information is returned in the AT response.

Read command
------------

The read command is not supported.

Test command
------------

The test command is not supported.

Example
-------

Query memory statistics:
::

   AT#XLOG=1
   OK
   AT#XDBGSTATSMEM
   OK

> Above commands will print the following output in the log:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These commands will print the following output in the log:
```

::

   [00:00:36.270,965] <inf> sm_at: System heap stats:
   [00:00:36.270,996] <inf> sm_at:   free:            45844
   [00:00:36.270,996] <inf> sm_at:   allocated:         472
   [00:00:36.271,026] <inf> sm_at:   max. allocated:    472
   [00:00:36.271,026] <inf> sm_at: Kernel heap stats:
   [00:00:36.271,057] <inf> sm_at:   free:             1892
   [00:00:36.271,057] <inf> sm_at:   allocated:           0
   [00:00:36.271,057] <inf> sm_at:   max. allocated:   1280

> Here is how the output looks like when ``CONFIG_SM_DEBUG_STATS_THREAD_STACK`` and ``CONFIG_SYS_HEAP_INFO`` Kconfig options are enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output appears as follows when ``CONFIG_SM_DEBUG_STATS_THREAD_STACK`` and ``CONFIG_SYS_HEAP_INFO`` Kconfig options are enabled:
```

.. note::

   This AT command is `Experimental <Software maturity levels_>`_.

Print heap and thread stack memory statistics to the log at the ``INF`` level.
Since this is using the logging as an output, you must enable logging first by issuing ``AT#XLOG=1`` command.

The following statistics are printed:

* System heap (``malloc`` heap): free bytes, allocated bytes, and peak allocated bytes.
* Kernel heap (``k_malloc`` heap): free bytes, allocated bytes, and peak allocated bytes.
* Kernel heap block information.
  * This is only available when the ``CONFIG_SYS_HEAP_INFO`` Kconfig option is enabled.
* Thread stack usage statistics.
  * This is only available when the :ref:`CONFIG_SM_DEBUG_STATS_THREAD_STACK <CONFIG_SM_DEBUG_STATS_THREAD_STACK>` Kconfig option is enabled.
  * The ``CONFIG_LOG_MODE_IMMEDIATE`` Kconfig option is required to avoid dropping some of the log entries showing stack usage statistics.
    Note that this will change operational timings compared to the ``CONFIG_LOG_MODE_DEFERRED`` Kconfig option.

This command is available when the firmware is built with the :ref:`CONFIG_SM_DEBUG_STATS_HEAP <CONFIG_SM_DEBUG_STATS_HEAP>` Kconfig option enabled.

> In addition, the ``CONFIG_LOG`` Kconfig option and the ``CONFIG_SM_LOG_LEVEL_DBG`` or ``CONFIG_SM_LOG_LEVEL_INF`` Kconfig option must be enabled.

Reviewer 2: Depend should take care of this.
```suggestion
```

Author: Discussion in https://github.com/nrfconnect/ncs-serial-modem/pull/371#discussion_r3718564575
